In a
perfectly fitting and completely unplanned
sequence of events this week, I played the
director's cut of Deus Ex: Human Revolution
the day before playing this...a game from
the same publisher, in the same genre and
with many of the same ideas.
Only one game is considered a masterpiece,
and the other is Project: Snowblind.
A game I've never even heard of.
Take a guess which one's more fun.
Oh, and here's a hint.
If it was the masterpiece, there wouldn't
be much of a point to this intro.
And my intros always have a point.
So I did not expect much from Project: Snowblind.
It's a shooter from the mid-2000s, which means
it's probably blurry and awkward and trying
very hard to be the cinematic shooters that
would come out ten years later.
And hey, look—Project: Snowblind is all
of those things, what are the odds?
But Project: Snowblind has a lot more going
for it than the fact that it was apparently
named after a Black Sabbath song.
It's also a really fun shooter.
Fast, straightforward...and fun.
Something bigger and more celebrated shooters
could really learn from.
So the first thing you notice about Snowblind
is that it doesn't waste your time with stories
or characters that are never as interesting
as game developers think.
Instead, this one sticks to its strengths.
It starts you off with an all-out gun battle
against soldiers and walking robots before
culminating in an aerial assault you stave
off with a goddamn turret.
You've blown up 37 robots and finished an
entire level in the same amount of time other
shooters take introducing you to poorly voiced
characters with boring, broken stories.
What's your motivation?
You're actually having fun.
Weird, right?
So the thing it borrows from Deus Ex is, obviously,
the whole augmentation thing.
They're even called augmentations.
And you play as a soldier who—you guessed
it—has augmentations.
His name is Nathan, and he likes to blow sh*t
up.
Snowblind is completely focused on action.
It's a game with plenty of style and presentational
panache, for its time...but the game is always
highlighting the action.
It doesn't feel like, "Oh, we have to get
through this gameplay to get to our next big
cut scene."
It's putting all of its energy into gameplay...and,
you know, being a shooter.
In which you shoot things.
That's the thing I love about Snowblind.
It's just so fast and to the point.
The pacing is such a refreshing contrast to
a lot of modern games, which drag their feet
over narrative pleasantries.
None of that here.
Just awesome gameplay.
And that's the thing.
This game plays far better than you might
expect a nine-year-old shooter to play.
Great controls, tight aiming...really solid
shooting mechanics.
Speaking of mechanics...the augmentations
are well done, too.
You earn some seriously empowering abilities
in Snowblind, and they're actually usable,
you know?
You can see them in action, as opposed to
some minor attribute increase.
You get the vision augmentation?
Yeah, now you can see through f*cking walls.
And you can use that to shoot enemies that
haven't even seen you.
You can slow time, you can create some electrical
field that makes you invincible...these are
the kinda powers I want from a game.
I want badass powers that let me strike my
enemies like the fist of an angry god.
Not, freaking...oh, plus one defense.
Now I can take ten bullets, instead of nine.
And you know, I'm impressed with how it looks,
too.
A lot of games from this era that went for
that gritty, realistic look...they look like
blurry brown messes, from a modern perspective.
This one doesn't.
It actually looks pretty good, especially
some of the environments.
It could've used more color, but you can say
that about every shooter.
I guess earth tones are the only testosterone-compliant
tones.
Look, is this some radical piece of game design?
Hardly.
Does it push the medium to new emotional heights?
F*ck no, that's what I love about it.
It's a shooter that remembers what the shooter
is.
The whole game—it's this linear path through
big robots, big ambushes and even bigger explosions.
And in 2013, that's a breath of fresh air.
You know, apart from all the smoke.
The explosions.
It's Project: Snowblind for the original Xbox.